# Sofia Noise Pollution Map

Noise pollution is any unwanted sound that causes discomfort and adversely affects humans and wildlife. Millions of people living in cities are impacted by noise pollution, which is responsible for increased stress levels, high blood pressure, partial hearing loss, sleep deprivation, and reduced productivity. In Sofia, there are many buildings where people work or live near the busiest and, thus, the noisiest boulevards. In this way, they are almost constantly exposed to sounds above 75 dB, which has a great chance of inducing health problems. Since there is not enough information about the sound levels in Sofia, I decided to carry out research, in which I measured the sound pressure level at the noisiest places in Sofia’s center during the evening peak traffic hours from 5:30 – 7 p.m with a Sound Meter & Noise Detection App. I considered the possible ways to show the data and decided that the most efficient way was to create a customized Google Map, marking the places and providing sound data for each. From 42 measurements, only two were found safe, with an average of 70 dB, while eighteen, which are close to apartment and office buildings, have an average noise between 80 and 85 dB. Exposure for more than 8 hours to sounds of 85 dB can damage hearing and cause severe annoyance. A possible solution to the problem is building noise barriers around the busiest streets, better maintenance of roads, and an increase in electric vehicles in the capital. Possible ways to extend the research include obtaining data from more locations and using a more accurate sound meter device.

- ✨The map URL ✨: https://storage.googleapis.com/noise_pollution/index.html

